## 9.3 Resolving codes to error messages

We’ve talked about databinding and validation. Outputting messages corresponding to validation errors is the last thing we need to discuss. In the example we’ve shown above, we rejected the`name`and the`age`field. If we’re going to output the error messages by using a`MessageSource`, we will do so using the error code we’ve given when rejecting the field \('name' and 'age' in this case\). When you call \(either directly, or indirectly, using for example the`ValidationUtils`class\)`rejectValue`or one of the other`reject`methods from the`Errors`interface, the underlying implementation will not only register the code you’ve passed in, but also a number of additional error codes. What error codes it registers is determined by the`MessageCodesResolver`that is used. By default, the`DefaultMessageCodesResolver`is used, which for example not only registers a message with the code you gave, but also messages that include the field name you passed to the reject method. So in case you reject a field using`rejectValue("age", "too.darn.old")`, apart from the`too.darn.old`code, Spring will also register`too.darn.old.age`and`too.darn.old.age.int`\(so the first will include the field name and the second will include the type of the field\); this is done as a convenience to aid developers in targeting error messages and suchlike.

More information on the`MessageCodesResolver`and the default strategy can be found online in the javadocs of[`MessageCodesResolver`](http://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/4.3.11.RELEASE/javadoc-api/org/springframework/validation/MessageCodesResolver.html)and[`DefaultMessageCodesResolver`](http://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/4.3.11.RELEASE/javadoc-api/org/springframework/validation/DefaultMessageCodesResolver.html), respectively.

