### 9.5.5 Configuring a ConversionService

A ConversionService is a stateless object designed to be instantiated at application startup, then shared between multiple threads. In a Spring application, you typically configure a ConversionService instance per Spring container \(or ApplicationContext\). That ConversionService will be picked up by Spring and then used whenever a type conversion needs to be performed by the framework. You may also inject this ConversionService into any of your beans and invoke it directly.

> If no ConversionService is registered with Spring, the original PropertyEditor-based system is used. |

To register a default ConversionService with Spring, add the following bean definition with id`conversionService`:

```
<bean id="conversionService"
    class="org.springframework.context.support.ConversionServiceFactoryBean"/>
```

A default ConversionService can convert between strings, numbers, enums, collections, maps, and other common types. To supplement or override the default converters with your own custom converter\(s\), set the`converters`property. Property values may implement either of the Converter, ConverterFactory, or GenericConverter interfaces.

```
<bean id="conversionService"
        class="org.springframework.context.support.ConversionServiceFactoryBean">
    <property name="converters">
        <set>
            <bean class="example.MyCustomConverter"/>
        </set>
    </property>
</bean>
```

It is also common to use a ConversionService within a Spring MVC application. See[Section 22.16.3, “Conversion and Formatting”](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/4.3.11.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/html/mvc.html#mvc-config-conversion)in the Spring MVC chapter.

In certain situations you may wish to apply formatting during conversion. See[Section 9.6.3, “FormatterRegistry SPI”](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/4.3.11.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/html/validation.html#format-FormatterRegistry-SPI)for details on using`FormattingConversionServiceFactoryBean`.

