### 9.5.3 GenericConverter

When you require a sophisticated Converter implementation, consider the GenericConverter interface. With a more flexible but less strongly typed signature, a GenericConverter supports converting between multiple source and target types. In addition, a GenericConverter makes available source and target field context you can use when implementing your conversion logic. Such context allows a type conversion to be driven by a field annotation, or generic information declared on a field signature.

```
package org.springframework.core.convert.converter;

public interface GenericConverter {

    public Set<ConvertiblePair> getConvertibleTypes();

    Object convert(Object source, TypeDescriptor sourceType, TypeDescriptor targetType);

}
```

To implement a GenericConverter, have getConvertibleTypes\(\) return the supported source→target type pairs. Then implement convert\(Object, TypeDescriptor, TypeDescriptor\) to implement your conversion logic. The source TypeDescriptor provides access to the source field holding the value being converted. The target TypeDescriptor provides access to the target field where the converted value will be set.

A good example of a GenericConverter is a converter that converts between a Java Array and a Collection. Such an ArrayToCollectionConverter introspects the field that declares the target Collection type to resolve the Collection’s element type. This allows each element in the source array to be converted to the Collection element type before the Collection is set on the target field.

> Because GenericConverter is a more complex SPI interface, only use it when you need it. Favor Converter or ConverterFactory for basic type conversion needs. |

#### ConditionalGenericConverter

Sometimes you only want a`Converter`to execute if a specific condition holds true. For example, you might only want to execute a`Converter`if a specific annotation is present on the target field. Or you might only want to execute a`Converter`if a specific method, such as a`static valueOf`method, is defined on the target class.`ConditionalGenericConverter`is the union of the`GenericConverter`and`ConditionalConverter`interfaces that allows you to define such custom matching criteria:

```
public interface ConditionalConverter {

    boolean matches(TypeDescriptor sourceType, TypeDescriptor targetType);

}

public interface ConditionalGenericConverter
    extends GenericConverter, ConditionalConverter {

}
```

A good example of a`ConditionalGenericConverter`is an EntityConverter that converts between an persistent entity identifier and an entity reference. Such a EntityConverter might only match if the target entity type declares a static finder method e.g.`findAccount(Long)`. You would perform such a finder method check in the implementation of`matches(TypeDescriptor, TypeDescriptor)`.

