## 9.6 Spring Field Formatting

As discussed in the previous section,[`core.convert`](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/4.3.11.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/html/validation.html#core-convert)is a general-purpose type conversion system. It provides a unified ConversionService API as well as a strongly-typed Converter SPI for implementing conversion logic from one type to another. A Spring Container uses this system to bind bean property values. In addition, both the Spring Expression Language \(SpEL\) and DataBinder use this system to bind field values. For example, when SpEL needs to coerce a`Short`to a`Long`to complete an`expression.setValue(Object bean, Object value)`attempt, the core.convert system performs the coercion.

Now consider the type conversion requirements of a typical client environment such as a web or desktop application. In such environments, you typically convert_from String_to support the client postback process, as well as back_to String_to support the view rendering process. In addition, you often need to localize String values. The more general_core.convert_Converter SPI does not address such_formatting_requirements directly. To directly address them, Spring 3 introduces a convenient Formatter SPI that provides a simple and robust alternative to PropertyEditors for client environments.

In general, use the Converter SPI when you need to implement general-purpose type conversion logic; for example, for converting between a java.util.Date and and java.lang.Long. Use the Formatter SPI when you’re working in a client environment, such as a web application, and need to parse and print localized field values. The ConversionService provides a unified type conversion API for both SPIs.

