### 9.8.2 Configuring a Bean Validation Provider

Spring provides full support for the Bean Validation API. This includes convenient support for bootstrapping a JSR-303/JSR-349 Bean Validation provider as a Spring bean. This allows for a`javax.validation.ValidatorFactory`or`javax.validation.Validator`to be injected wherever validation is needed in your application.

Use the`LocalValidatorFactoryBean`to configure a default Validator as a Spring bean:

```
<bean id="validator"
    class="org.springframework.validation.beanvalidation.LocalValidatorFactoryBean"/>
```

The basic configuration above will trigger Bean Validation to initialize using its default bootstrap mechanism. A JSR-303/JSR-349 provider, such as Hibernate Validator, is expected to be present in the classpath and will be detected automatically.

#### Injecting a Validator

`LocalValidatorFactoryBean`implements both`javax.validation.ValidatorFactory`and`javax.validation.Validator`, as well as Spring’s`org.springframework.validation.Validator`. You may inject a reference to either of these interfaces into beans that need to invoke validation logic.

Inject a reference to`javax.validation.Validator`if you prefer to work with the Bean Validation API directly:

```
import javax.validation.Validator;

@Service
public class MyService {

    @Autowired
    private Validator validator;
```

Inject a reference to`org.springframework.validation.Validator`if your bean requires the Spring Validation API:

```
import org.springframework.validation.Validator;

@Service
public class MyService {

    @Autowired
    private Validator validator;

}
```

#### Configuring Custom Constraints

Each Bean Validation constraint consists of two parts. First, a`@Constraint`annotation that declares the constraint and its configurable properties. Second, an implementation of the`javax.validation.ConstraintValidator`interface that implements the constraint’s behavior. To associate a declaration with an implementation, each`@Constraint`annotation references a corresponding ValidationConstraint implementation class. At runtime, a`ConstraintValidatorFactory`instantiates the referenced implementation when the constraint annotation is encountered in your domain model.

By default, the`LocalValidatorFactoryBean`configures a`SpringConstraintValidatorFactory`that uses Spring to create ConstraintValidator instances. This allows your custom ConstraintValidators to benefit from dependency injection like any other Spring bean.

Shown below is an example of a custom`@Constraint`declaration, followed by an associated`ConstraintValidator`implementation that uses Spring for dependency injection:

```
@Target({ElementType.METHOD, ElementType.FIELD})
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
@Constraint(validatedBy=MyConstraintValidator.class)
public @interface MyConstraint {
}
```

```
import javax.validation.ConstraintValidator;

public class MyConstraintValidator implements ConstraintValidator {

    @Autowired;
    private Foo aDependency;

    ...
}
```

As you can see, a ConstraintValidator implementation may have its dependencies @Autowired like any other Spring bean.

#### Spring-driven Method Validation

The method validation feature supported by Bean Validation 1.1, and as a custom extension also by Hibernate Validator 4.3, can be integrated into a Spring context through a`MethodValidationPostProcessor`bean definition:

```
<bean class="org.springframework.validation.beanvalidation.MethodValidationPostProcessor"/>
```

In order to be eligible for Spring-driven method validation, all target classes need to be annotated with Spring’s`@Validated`annotation, optionally declaring the validation groups to use. Check out the`MethodValidationPostProcessor`javadocs for setup details with Hibernate Validator and Bean Validation 1.1 providers.

#### Additional Configuration Options

The default`LocalValidatorFactoryBean`configuration should prove sufficient for most cases. There are a number of configuration options for various Bean Validation constructs, from message interpolation to traversal resolution. See the`LocalValidatorFactoryBean`javadocs for more information on these options.

